TAGALOG is one of the major languages spoken in the Philippines, mostly by people from the Tagalog regions in the main island of Luzon.  It is the lingua franca in Metro Manila, the national capital region of the country.   It also serves as a base for Filipino, one of  the two official languages of the Philippines (along with English).  Read this interesting essay on the metamorphosis of Filipino as national language.

The TAGALOG language has very strong affinity with Malay languages (Bahasa Indonesia/Malay).  However, due to more than 300 years of Spanish colonial rule over  the Philippines, the language has incorporated a significant number of Spanish words and expressions.  The language also includes words and phrases that are rooted in English and Chinese.

According to the 1990 and 2000 United States Census, TAGALOG is the second most commonly-spoken Asian language (after Chinese) in the United States, and the sixth non-English language spoken in America.  TAGALOG is the lingua franca of Filipinos anywhere in the world.  Most Southeast Asian scholars use TAGALOG as the tool for research in the Philippines.  It is also  the language of major works in literature and that of Philippine films and songs.

Our TAGALOG homepage is designed with both the beginning and intermediate students of Tagalog in mind. To make your study of the language both challenging and enjoyable, we have incorporated a number of  learning activities to enhance your listening, speaking, reading, and writing skills in Tagalog. 
 

You can activate the Tagalog- English Online Dictionary and Tagalog Tutor by clicking on TAGALOG TOOLS.   If you don't find the Tagalog word/s you are looking for, please send us an e-mail so we could add them to our online dictionary base.

Our English-Tagalog Online Dictionary is now available.  It will give you a list of corresponding Tagalog words for  the English term that you are looking for,  and you can choose which one is appropriate in terms of usage.  If you have problems looking for English words that do not have their corresponding Tagalog words in our database, please let us know by using our Tagalog  e-mail  link.

 